;hitoeng034.txt

34
Water is the greatest strength of acquatic animals, a fortregs of those who habitually reside in fortresses, their own ground of beasts and other animals, and a minister of kings.
Friend Laghupatanaka, this advice will lead to a result
like this.
You will fare like the merchant's son who became unhappy on beholding with his own eyes his wife's breasts hard pressed
They asked-How was this ? Hiranyaka related
FABLE VII. There was, in the country of Kanyakubja, a king whose name was Virasona. He appointed a prince, named Tungabala, governor of the city of Virapura. Possessed of great wealth and young, he, while walking about, one day, in his city, saw & young merchant's wife, Lávanyavati by name, who was in the very prime of youth. On returning to his palace with a heart disturbed by love, he sent a messenger for her. For,
So long only docs a man keep to the path of virtue, has control over his senses, feels shame and clings to modesty, as the arrows in the shape of glances cast by sportive ladies, discharged after being drawn from the bows of their eyebrows, which reach the region of the ear, which have the dark eyelashes (for feathers ) and which rob one of courage, do not fall on his breast.
That Lávanyavati too, from the moment she eaw him, thought solely of him, her heart being deeply wounded by the fallings of the shafts of love. For, it is said
Infidelity, & spirit of adventure, deceit, jealousy, extreme avarice, absence of good qualities and want of purity-these
are the natural defects of women. P. 29. Now on hearing the words of the go-between Lavanyavati
said--I am devoted to my husband. How shall I then think of doing this irreligious deed of being faithless to my husband? For,
She is a wife who is diligent in the managemet of the household ; she is a wife who is prolific in children; she is a wife who loves her husband as her own life, and she is a wife who is solely devoted to her husband.
She should not be called a wife in whom the husband does not delight: when the husband is pleased, all the deities are pleased with women.
