;hitoeng050.txt

50
Please reply. Why does my lord stand here, as if amazed, without drinking water, although thirsty ? Pingalaka repliedYou have spoken well. But there is no one trustworthy to whom this secret can be confined. You are such & one. Therefore I will communicate it to you. Listen. This forest has now been inhabited by some beast, unheard of before, and must for that reason, be left by us. I am perplexed on this account. Similarly you too have heard that strange loud sound. Great must be the strength of this animal corresponding to his voice. Damanaka replied-My lord, this is, indeed, a great cause for fear. We too have heard the sound. But he is a bad minister who first counsels the quitting of land and then a fight. At this crisis when it is difficult to know what steps to take, the use of servants alone is to be known. For,
A man knows (tests) on the touch-stone of adversity the strength of his relatives, wife and servants, as also of his in. tellect and mental calibre. - 80.
The lion said-Friend, e great terror has overtaken me. Damanaka gaid again-( To himself) How, else, can you talk to me of leaving the pleasures of a kingdom and going to another place. ( Aloud ) My lord, as long as I am alive, Your Majesty should have no fear. But Karayaka and others should also be encouraged (by marks of royal favour), since it is difficult to have a united body of men at the time of overcoming & calamity.
Then Damanaka and Karataka, on whom every honour W.. bestowed by the king, set out having promised to ward off the danger. Og the way Karatake said to Damanaka-Friend, without ascertaining whether the cause of fear is possible to be &verted or not, why did you accept this great favour having undertaken the removal of the fear? For unless one has done a service one should not accept & reward from anybody, especially from a king. Observe,
On his ( king's ) favour depends wealth, on his exploit victory and on his anger death: for he represents all aplendours (energies). So also,
A king althongh a boy, should not be despised because he is & man; for he is a mighty deity existing in a human form. P.44. Damanake smiled and said-Friend, rest quiet (eesy). I
have known the dause of fear. That was the bellowiag of a
