;hitoeng082.txt

82
For,
A single bowman standing on the battlement can fight & hundred, and a hundred a hundred thousand : hence & fortress is set down" as necessary. -50.
The territory of what king which is without strongholds is not liable to be conquered by the enemy? A king who has no fortress is helpless like a man fallen overboard.
One should build & castle with a large trench, furnished with lofty battlements, having machines, and a good supply of water and situated in a place sarrounded by hills, rivers and deserts.
Spaciousness, extreme difficulty of access (lit. ruggedness of the ground ), a large store of water, grain and fuel and the means of ingress and egress-these seven are the precious posses
eions of a fort.
The king-Who should be entrusted with the work of
getting the fortress ready ? Ohakravaka gaid
One should employ & man in that business in which he is skilled. He who has no practical knowledge of a work gets bewildered (when set to it ), although well versed in science.
Let Sárasa be called then. That being done, when Ebraga came the king looked at him and said-Sarasa , quickly attend to the fitting up of & fortress. Sárasa replied after bowing
As for a fortress, Sire, I have long well marked this large lake as such ; only let a stock of provisions be ordered to be laid up in the island which is in its contre. For,
The store of grains, o king, is the best of all stores; because
a jewel put into the mouth cannot support life.
Moreover, P. 72. Of all spiced things salt is known to be the best : for & condiment taken without it tastes like cowdung (is quite insipid).
The king-Go and attend to everything with despath. The door-keeper having entered again-Sire, & crow, Maghavarna (cloud-colour) by name, who has come from Ceylon, is waiting at the gate with his retinue and wishes to see Your Majesty's feet. The king--A crow again knows everything and has a wide range of observation and is, for this reason, worthy of being retained. Ohakraváka observed-Sire, this may be. But the
* By writers on military science.
