;hitoeng038.txt

38
Having thus lamented much, Hirsuyaka said to Chitranga and Laghupatanaka-Before this hunter departs from the forest let an effort be made to deliver Manthara. Tell us, said they, what we are to do. Hiranyaka said-Let Chitranga go to the water-side and feign himself to be dead. Let the crow sit upon him and peck at him with his bill in some way. Surely the sportsman, eager for the deer's flesh, will quickly make for him, leaving the tortoise there. Then I will gnaw
asunder Manthara's bonds. When the sportsman approaches P. 32 you, you should run away. When Ohitranga and Laghu
patanaka had quickly acted as they had been instructed, the huntsman, who being fatigued had drunk water and sat under & tree, noticed the door in that condition. Then delighted at heart, he took up his scissors and went towards him. In the meanwhile, Hiranyaka came and cut off Manthara's bonds, and the tortoise quickly entered the pond. The deer seeing the huntsman approach him started up and bounded away. When the hunter, having returned, came to the foot of the tree and saw not the tortoise there, he thus reflected This is but meet in the case of me who have acted rashly. For,
He who leaves certainties and pursues unoertainties, loses what is certain, while what is uncertain is already (or, certain to be ) lost (to hinu).
So he returned to his place disappointed through his own
(rash ) act (fault). Manthara and others, being free from calamity, went to their abode and lived in happiness.
Now the princes said joyfully-Wo have heard all and become happy. Our desire has been gained. Vishậuśarma replied-So far your desired object has been accomplished. Let there be this much more, too
May you, o good men, obtain a friend: may the countryfolk gain wealth; may kings govern the earth, ever abiding by their duty; may the policy of good statesmen, like a wife newly wedded, be for the delight of your heart ; and may the divine one who has the crescent moon for his crest-jewel do good to the people !!
Chapter II.
THE SEPARATION OF FRIENDS. The princes said—Sir, as for "The Acquisition of Friend' we bave heard that. Now we wish to loarn the chapter on
