;hitoeng046.txt

46
Just as a stone is raised to the top of a hill with great efforts but hurled down in a moment, so is the soul led to virtue or vice.
It is by his actions that a man sinks lower and lower, or
riges up like the digger of a well or the builder of a wall.
Therefore, friend, a man's position (lit. soul) depends on his exertions. Karataka said-Now what do you say? He replied-This our lord Piągalaka has come back frightened at something or other and has sat-down. Karataka asked-Do you know the real fact? Damanaka replied-What is there that is not known ? It is said
When & thing is expressed in words, even & brute can understand it; even horses and elephants bear (loads ) when ordered; a clever man comprehends & meaning although not expressed: for, talent has for its fruit the knowledge of the inward thoughts of others. net
The inmost thoughts of a man are divined from his fea. tures, gestures, movements, actions, speech and the motion of
the eyes and the face. - 50. P.40. Therefore, on this occasion of fear, I will win over this
lord by the force of my intellect. For,
He is & wise man who knows how to address a speech suited to an occasion, or to act in a manner befitting one's good intention or to be angry in proportion to one's strength.
Karataka said-Friend, you do not know how to serve. See
He is a fool who enters (into royal presence) withont being called, speaks much without being asked, and considers himself & favourite of the king.
Damanaka said--Friend, how can I be ignorant of serving?
is there anything by nature charming or not charming ?
Whatever a man likes is charming to him. For,
Whatever a man's (thought or ) feeling be, having mini
stered to that, a talented man should quickly win him over.
When asked 'who is here' & servant should say I; please command'; and he should execute the king's command to the best of his ability. Moreover,
He, who is modest in his desires, patient, wise, always in attendance like & shadow and would not hesitate whor ordered to do a thing), should dwell in a king's palace.
