;hitoeng011.txt


Even now let this be done. Let us all, being of one mind, fly away with the net. For,
The union of even small things leads to the accomplishment of an object ; infuriated (rutting) elephants are tied down by means of grass twisted (made) into a rope.
Union with the members of their family, although insignificant, is for the good of men ; rice stripped of even its husk will not grow.
The birds, having thus taken counsel, flew up all with the net. Thereupon the fowler, seeing them, from afar, carrying off the net, and running after them, thought to himself,
These birds, being combined, are bearing away my net ; but when they will fall down (or, out among themselves), they will fall into my power. 
;;-37.
[Page 10]
Then, when the birds bad passed beyond the range of the eye, the fowler returned. Now the pigeons, seeing that the fowler had turned back, said -- What is proper to be done now? Chitragriva said --
A mother, a friend and a father -- these three are naturally friendly ; others are well-disposed according to the law of cause and effect.
Now our friend, Hiranyaka by name, the king of mice, dwells in Chitravana (a beautiful forest) on the bank of the Gandaki. He will cut off our bonds. Having thus deliberated, they all went to the hole of Hiranyaka. Hiranyaka, on his part, always apprehensive of danger, had made a burrow with a hundred passages and lived in it. Then Hiranyaka, startled with fear at the descent of the pigeons, stood silent. Chitragriva said -- Dear Hiranyaka, why don't you talk to us? Then Hiranyaka, having recognised his voice, rushed out in haste and said -- Ah, happy am I! my beloved friend Chitragrîva has come.
No one is more meritorious in this world than he, who talks with his friend, who lives with his friend and who holds a friendly discourse (or, chats) with his friend.
Seeing them caught in the snares he stood astonished for a moment and said -- Friend, what is this ? Chitragriva replied -- Friend, this is the fruit of our deeds in a previous life.
From whatever cause, by whatever means, in whatever manner, at whatever time, of whatever kind, in whatever proportion and at whatever place, one may do a deed, good or

;hitoeng012.txt

bad, one reaps the fruit of it, in obedience to the will of providence, from that cause, by that means, &c.
Disease, sorrow, affliction, restraint and calamities -- these are the fruits of the trees in the form of the faults committed by men.
The mouse quickly proceeded to sever the bonds of Chitragriva. Chirtagriva said -- Friend, do not do so; first cut the bonds of these my followers ; and then you will cut mine. Hiranyaka too replied -- I have little strength and my teeth are delicate, how then can I gnaw asunder the snares of these all? So as long as my teeth are not broken, I will cut your bonds and then sever those of the rest too as far as my strength will allow. Chitragriva said -- Be it so; but cut the bonds of these to the best of your strength. Hiranyaka replied -- The protection of dependents at the cost of one's life is not approved of by those conversant with the science of conduct (or, policy). For,
One should save money (as a provision) against the time of trouble, save one's wife even at the expense of wealth and save one's own self even at the cost of one's wife and wealth. 
[Page 11]
Another consideration is --
Life is the cause of the proper maintenance of Dharma, Artha, Kama and Moksha. *{* See. p. 3, 11, 23-26.} What does he not deprive himself of who deprives himself of it, or what does he not save who eaves it?
Chitragriva said -- Friend, as for the principle of) Policy it is such, indeed! But I am not, at all, able to bear the affliction of these my followers (lit., protegees). Hence I say this. For,
A wise man should give up his wealth and also his life for another's sake; their abandonment in a good cause is desirable as destruction is certain.
And this is another special reason.
They bear an equality to me as regards kind, substance and qualities : say then, when and what will be the fruit of my being their lord ?
Also,
Even without wages they do not leave my side (forsake me); therefore, save these my dependents, even at the sacrifice of my life. Moreover,

