;hitoeng054.txt

54
Again, a man does not attain a position of being served by reason of other fanily-observances (such as polite conduct &c. other than the possession of wealth); a man without wealth is abandoned even by his wife; how much more then by others ?
And this is the cardinal defect in the administration of a state
Over-expenditure, want of supervision, as also raising money by unfair means, plundering and distant situation--these are the evil: of the treasury. For,
A man of wealth, who spends his money at his will recklessly without looking to his income, is reduced to poverty
although as rich as Kubera. P. 47. Stabdhakarna observed-Listen, brother. These two,
Damanaka and Karataka, your servants of long standing, who are the ministers of war and peace, must not at all bo appointed to supervise the treasury. I will also tell you what little I have heard on the subjoct of making appointments.
A Brahmana, a Kshatriya and a relative should not preferably be appointed as treasury-officers. A Bråbmana does not deliver up even under pressure the money though realized.
A Kshatriya having charge of money-matters is sure to show his sword (defy his master); while a relative, on the strength (by virtue of his kinship, swallows the whole thing, having seized it.
An officer who ha. been & servant of long standing is fearless even when he has committed & fault; and having despised his master will act freely (lit. without any restraint).
A benefactor (one who has done a service ) when appointed to an office is regardless of his own offence and putting forward his obligation will appropriate the whole thing.
Since a play-friend from childhood, if appointed a minister, himself acts as a king, he is sure always to despise ( his master) on account of his familiarity.
He who is perverse in the mird but outwardly forbearing, verily brings on ruin of every kind: Sakuni and Sakatára, o king, will serve as instances of this. -100.
All ministers when grown great are incorrigible in the end. It is a saying of the Siddhas (sages, perfect seers ) that abundance perverls the mind.
