;hitoeng035.txt

35
Therefore, whatever the lord of my life orders me to do, I do without questioning (its propriety). The messenger asked-- Is this the truth? Lávaṇyavatî replied-Beyond doubt this is the truth. Then the messenger went back and reported all that to Tuigabala. Having heard it Tungabala observedHow can this be possible that the husband would bring her here and offer her to me? The go-between said- Let a device be used. For it is said
That which can be achieved by means of a device cannot be accomplished by valour: An elephant was killed by a jackal going over a miry way. The prince asked how it was. She related
FABLE VIII. There was an elephant, named Karpâratilaka in Brahma
ranya. On seeing him all the jackals thought to themselves-- if by some means this can dio, his body will afford us sufficient food for four months. Then an old jackal from among them declared I will bring about his death by the power of my intellect. Then the wily fellow having gone to Karpáratilaka and bowed to him toaching the ground with the eight parts of his body said-My lord, favour me with a glance. The elephant asked-Who art thou? Whence art thou come? He replied-I am a jackal and sent to Your Honour's presence by all the inhabitants of the forest having assembled together (to say):-Since it is not expendient to live without a king Your Honour has been selected, as possessed of all kingly qualities, to be installed king of the forest. For,
He, who is extremely pure as regards his family, nobility and conduct, is chivalrous, pious, and versed in politics, is worthy of being a king on earth. Moreover,
One should first obtain a king, then a wife and then wealth: in the absence of a king, whenoe can there be wife or wealth? Again,
Like rain, the lord of the earth is the support of oreatures : life can be sustained, however, even when there is scarcity of rain, but not in the absence of a king. Moreover,
In this interdependent world a man keeps within the bounds of duty mostly throngh the dread of punishment; & man of good conduct is difficult to be found and it is through the fear of punishment also, that a women of good family ap
