;hitoeng066.txt

66
Jnat e
happy ? Damanaka replied-How can there be any happiness for servants ? For,
The riches of those who are in royal service are in another's power; their mind is always uneasy, and they have no surety even of their lives. Moreover, -150.
Who, having obtained wealth, does not become proud ? The miseries of what sensualist have come to an end? Whose mind is not wounded by woman? Who is & favourite of kings ? Who has not fallen into the clutches of Death? What supplicant has met with honour, and what man, fallen into the meshes of the wicked, has escaped unscathed ? & Sanjivaka said-Friend, speak out what this mes ng. Damanaka replied—What should I say, an unfortunate creature ! Behold,
Just as a man plunged into the sea having obtained the support of a serpent, does neither give it ap nor hold fast to it, 30 bewildered am I now. For,
On the one hand is the royal confidence betrayed, on the other, a friend perishes: what shall I do, and where shall I go, I who am fallon into the sea of trouble ?
With these words he heaved & deep sigh and sat down. Samjivaka said-Still, friend, tell me in detail what you have at heart. Damanaka said with (a show of) great secrecyAlthough I must not betray the king's secret, yet you have some here through confidence in us; and I, as desiring the next world, must necessarily tell you what concerns your welfare. Listen. This our Lord, being prejudiced against you, said in private-I will kill Samjivaka himself and treat my attendants (with his flesh). Samjîvaka, on hearing this, was smitten with great sorrow. Damanaka observed again-Away with sorrow. Do what the time demande. Samjivaka, after a momento’s
refleotion, said-This is, indeed, well gaidP. 58. Women seek the company of wicked men ; a king generally
patronizes (or, lavishes wealth upon the undeserving; wealth seeks a miser; and the god of rain pours the showers on mountains and seas !
(To himself) Now it is not possible to decide from his manner of acting (or, conversing) whether this is his doing or not. For,
