;hitoeng031.txt

31
Lions, good mon and elephants leave their places and go to others; while crows, cowardly men and deer perish in their own places.
To a high-minded hero, what is his own and what is a foreign country? Whatever country he resorts to, the same he acquires by the might of his arms : whichever forest the lion, armed with his jaws, claws and tail, entera, in the same he quenohes his thirst with the blood of the lordly elephants he kills. Again, - 172. 2.26. As frogs repair to & puddle or birds to a lake full of
water), so do all fortunes to an industrious man helplessly (being entirely at his disposal). Moreover,
Happiness should be welcomed, and also misery, as they fall to 'one's share: Happiness and misery revolve (follow each other ) like a wheel. Again,
The goddess of wealth goes, of her own Accord, for residence, to him who is endowed with energy, who is prompt in action, who knows the theory and practice of a thing, who is not addicted to vices, and who is brave, grateful and firm in friendship. And particularly,
A heroic person, although without wealth, attains a high position attended with great honour; while a miser, though endowed with riches, becomes an object of contempt. Oan a dog, although wearing neoklaces of gold, possess the majesty of the lion, which is a natural possession and which is the province for the attainment of a number of good qualities?
Why should you be proud when you have wealth, and why should you be sorry when you have lost it? The ups and downg (in the life of man are like (risings and fallings of ) a ball strook with the hand. Again,
The shadow of clouds, the friendship of a wicked man, new corn, women, youth and wealth are to be enjoyed but for & short while.
One should not work too hard for livelihood : for that is provided by the creator: 80 soon as & creature is born, the breasts of the mother overflow with milk, Moreover, friend,
He who made the swans white, the parrots green, and the peacocks of & varied colour, will provide for your sustenance. -180
Hear, aloo, friend, the secret of the good.
