;hitoeng084.txt

84
For,
That which is the natural disposition of one is always hard to be got rid of. If a dog were made a king would he noi
18w & shoe?
Upon thie, being discovered by his voice he will be killed by the tiger. Then that being done that happened (i. o. the plan being put into execution the event turned out as antioi
pated ). For it is said P. 73. An enemy of our own tribe knows our weak points, our .
soorets, our valour-our everything, and when such a one is in our midst he burns, as fire in the interior does & dry tree.
I say, therefore,—That fool who having left off his own side &c. The king-Although this is the case, atill he must be seen as he has come from a distance. We shall consider the question of his being retained here. The minister-Please Your Highness, the emissary has been sent and the castle put in readiness. Let the parrot, therefore, be granted an interview and dismissed. But,
Ohanakya killed Nanda through the agency of a sharp spy: one should, therefore, see an emissary, acoompanied by wise men and with bravo men intervening. -60.
Thereafter a council being called, the parrot and the crow were sent for. The parrot, with his neok raised a little, sat or the seat that was offered him and said-His Imperial Majesty, the great Ohitravarna commands you-If you care anything for your life or wealth, come quickly and bow to our feet ; or else think of some other place to live in. The king said in a Tage-Is there none among our servants here who will seize him by the nook and turn him out)? Meghavarns rising-Sire, give but your command and I will kill the vile parrat. Sarvajña, having pacified the king and the crow, baid-Please listen
That is not an assembly which has no old men in it; thosc are not old men who do not declare what is just. That is no justice which has no truth in it; and that is not truth which borders on (leaves room for, partakes of fraud. And justice requires this
A messenger, even though he be a Mlechchha (an out-caste) is exempt from being put to death; for a king has a messenger for his mouth (i.6. it is the king who speaks through his messenger ). .
