;hitoeng073.txt

73
peacock made king? Hearing this they all beoame ready to kill me, whereupon I also displayed my valour. For,
On other occasions forbearance is an ornament to mon as modesty is to women; but on the occasion of an insult a heroie action is an ornament as boldness absence of modesty ) is tcs woman at the time of sexual enjoyment.
The king smiled and observed
He, who having well considered his own strength or weak2008 as well as that of his enamies is not at all able to mark the difference, is despised by the enemies. Again,
A stupid ass, that daily fed upon corn in a field for & loug sime, being covered with a tiger's skin, suffered death for the fault of his voice.
The crane asked how it was. The king related
FABLE II. There lived, in Hastinapura, a washerman, Vilsa oy name. His a had become feeble on account of carrying burdens toe hears for him and was almost at the point oi deatz. Thereapon the washerman, having wrappel him up in a tiger's skin, let him looge in a corn-field near & forest. Now the master of
the field seeing him from a distance used quickly ociun away P.64 taking him for a tiger. Then, one day, one of the men setting
guard over the coru having protected his body with a dasky blanket and got a bow and arrow ready, remained waiting in a oorner with his body bent down (in a bent postura Seeing him from a distance the donkey who had grown stout and gained strength by eating corn at pleasure thought kim se be a female ass and setting up a loud bray r&2 towards her. The corn-keeper knowing for certain from his brayice that it was an ass killed him easily. Henco I say-A stupid ass, that daily fed on corn &c. What next? Di'rghamukha replied-Tion the birds said--Ah villain, vile orane, treading on our ground, thoi rovilest our lord ! This cannot be borno now. With these words all of them pecked at me with their bills and said wratofally-Look here, thou blockhead, that swar, sby king, is extremely mild. He has no claim at all to sovereignty.
For he who is all mildness is not able to save even the thing on the palm of his hand. How can ho govern the earth then, or what is a kingdom to him ? You too are s freg in a pell
