;hitoeng078.txt

78
FABLE VI. There was a wheel-wright in the town of Yauvanas'ri mamed Mandamati Dull-wit ). He knew his wife was false, but had never seen her, with his own eyes, with her lover in the same place. Then the wheel-wright saying that he was going to & village set out, but after having gone some way he returnod secretly and hid himself in his house under the cot. Now the wife of the wheel-wright, confident that he had gone to another village, called her lover just in the evening. There after, as she was sporting heartily with him on the cot, she got a slight touch of his (the wheel-sright's ) body as he lay under the cot, and feeling sure that it was her husband, became disconcerted Thereupon the galleat asked her-Why don't yon sport with me lustily to-day but appear to be bewildered ? To this she replied-You are quite ignorant of the truth. He who is the lord of my life, and with wbom I have been in frien dehip from childhood has gone to o village. Withont him, this village, although full of people, is to me as a desert. How has he fared in that strange place? What has he eaten ? How has he managed for his bedding ?- with such thoughts is ay mind distracted. What then, asked the gallant, is that wheel-wright such an object of love to you? The whore replied-You blockhead, why do you chatter thus ? Listen
She, who, although addressed in harsh words or looked at with angry eyes, receives her husband with a cheerful counten
ance, is the abode of religious merit. P. 68 The worlds of great bliss are (in reserve ) for those
women who love their husband, whether living in a city or & wilderness, whether reprobate or virtuous. Again,
The husband is the most precious ornament of & woman althogh without (other) ornaments: for without him, she, even though decorated, is without grace.
You are a paramour. Through levity of heart, I sometimes consort with you, as I would chew & roll of betel-nut leaves no put on flowers. But he is my master, having power to sell me, or to give me away to the gods or the Brahmapas. In short, I live while he lives, and will die with him when he dies. This is my resolve. For,
For years three crore and a half-which is the number of hair on the human body-does a woman live in heaven, who follows her husband in death. Moreover,
