;hitoeng076.txt

76
from the right path, who has mastered the law relating to disputes, who is bereditary, reputed, learned and an expert in raising revenue.
Just then a parrot observed-Please Your Highness, Karparadvipa aud other small countries are inciuded in Jambudvipa and therefore the authority of Your Highness extends over them also. To this the king replied that it was 80. For,
A king, a mad man, a child, a young woman, and one olated with the pride of wealth, desire what is unattainable ;
how much more so then what can be certainly obtained ? P.66. To this I gaid-If by mere words one's sovereignty oan be
established, our lord Hiranyagarbha too has mastery over Jambudvipa
The parzot said-How can this matter be decided ? I replied-By war. The king said smilingly-Go and ask your king to be ready.
Then I said-You should send your ambassador also. The king asked-Who will go as an ambassador ? For a person of this deacription should be appointed an ambassador
A messenger should be devoted to his master, pure (or, honest ), diligent, bold, unaddicted to vices, forgiving, a Brábmana, one knowing the woak points (or, secrets of the onemy and ready-witted,
The zulture observed-Many are it to be ainbassadors, no dout; but a Bráumaga aloue should be preferred. For,
He please his master and does not aim at his wealth: the blackness of Kalakuta ( a kind of deadly poison ) does not vanish even by its contact with I'śvara (Śiva). - 20.
The kırg-Let the parrot go then. Parrot, you yourself then go with him and declare our will. The Parrot-As Your Majesty commands. But this crane is a villain ; I will not go with him. For, it is said
A wicked mau commits an evil deed, while its consequences are sure to be suffered by the good. Ravana carried away Sata, while the great ocean suttered oondnement (had a bridge built over it). Moreover,
One should not, in any case, live with a wicked man: from their contact with a crow were killed a goose who lived with him and a quail for going on a journey with him.
