;hitoeng067.txt

67
Some wicked man possesses splendour (appears goouu amiable ) from the beauty of his master (or patron, lit. the person he depends upon), like fool (black) collyrium when put into their eyes by young women.
After reflection; he says-Alas! What is this that has come
to pass ! For,
A king, though served with assiduity, may not be pleased ; where is the wonder in this ? Bat this is some strange pattern of creation, who being served is turned into an enemy !! !
So this is a matter (lit. something to be understood by in
ference ) which it is impossible to understand. For,
He who is displeased having some cause in view, is, indeed, pleased when that cause ) is removed; but how can & man please him whose mind harbours enmity without cause ?
What wrong did I do to the king? Or rather, kings are wont to do injury without any cause. Damanaka observed-It is just so. Listen
Even an act of kindness, done by man eminently learned and afectionate, becomes hateful; while an actual injury done by others is just regarded with pleasure : on account of difficulty of understanding the minds of kings which are unsteady (lit., not the abode of one feeling); the duty of servitude is extremely difficult, not to be comprehended even by Yogis (those who have attained superhuman powers).
Moreover,
A hundred obligations (or, services rendered) are lost upon the wicked; a hundred fine speeches upon the illiterate; a hundred words of advice upon those who would not act up to them; and & hundred counsels on the senseless. Again,
There are serpents on the sandal trees; lotuses grow in water wherein there are also alligators; and when one is in the enjoyment of a thing there are villains to obscure one's good qualities ; (80) pleasures are not without obstructions! And
further, - 160. 2:59. The root is infested by serpents, the flowers by bees, the branches by monkeye and the tops by bears; thus there is nothing belonging to the bandal tree that is not resorted to by very cruel and murderous animals.
As for our master, I have known him to be honeyed in
speech but carrying poison in the heart. For,
