;hitoeng102.txt

102
found out by smelling his mouth that he eats camphor, having stolen it. For it is said
The eating capacity of women (lit. food—as compared to that of men ) is said to be twofold, their talent fourfold, their energy sixfold and their passion eightfold.
Hearing those words of the woman) the servant getting angry said-Who can stay in the house of & master whose wife is of this sort house wherein the mistress smells the mouth of & servant every moment ? Saying this he got up and walked off. The merchant with great difficalty persuaded him and retained him in his service. Hence I gay-He is really talented
who counteracts &c. Thereafter Yadbhavishya said P.88. What is not to happen can never happen and what is to
happen can never be otherwise: Why is this medicine, which destroys the poison of anxiety, not drunk ?
Thon in the morning Pratyutpannamati, being caught in the net, feigned himself dead and go remained. Thereafter being removed from the net he jumped to the utmost of his power and entered deep water. While Yadbhavishya being caught by the fishermen was killed. Hence I say-Ansgata. vidhátà &o. Therefore so contrive it that I shall get to another pond to-day. The two geese gaid-You will be safe when another pond is reached. But what will be your means of safety (or, how will you fare) while going on land? The tortoise replied-Oontrive that means by which I shall be able to go along with you by the aerial path. The two geese saidHow can such & contrivance be possible? The tortoise replied
You take in your beaks a piece of wood which I will seize by my mouth, so that I too shall go with ease by the force of your winge. The two geese said- This contrivance is possible. But,
While thinking out & remedy & wise man should also take into account accident (or, possible hindrances, obstacles): the young of a foolish orane were eaten by mungooses before his very eyes. -10.
The tortoise asked how it was. The two geose thus narrated
FABLE IV. There is in the Northern country & mountain Gridhrakuta by name. There in a fig tree on the bank of the Airâvatî lived
