;hitoeng092.txt

shedding his bounty on the unworthy; and he should be bold without being harsh.
All these characteristics of a great man are found in him. Then in the morning the king having called together a council of great men, narrated bufore them the whole account and bestowed on him the kingdom of Kornata, &s & mark of his favour. What then, is a stranger wickod mere y because of his nature (or cla39 )? Even among these strangers ) there are
those who are good, bad and middling. Chakravàka said — P.80 He is a bad minister (or, is he a minister) who, having
regard to the will of the king represents ( recommends ) what ought not to be done as propor to be done: better is the pain caused to the master's mind than his ruin brought about by his doing what is improper.
A king, whose physician, spiritual guide and minister are
flatterers, fast loses his health, his religious merit and treasure.
Hear, my liege.
What was obtained by one through the force of merit I too ahall gain'- A barber, who, through a varice, thus covetad a treasure, lost his life for having killed a mendicant. The King asked how that was. The minister related
FAPLE IX. There was in the city of Ayodhya', a Kshatriya, by name Ohúdâmaņi. He, longing after wealth, long worshipped S'iva (lit. the god who has the crescent-moon for his crest-jewel) undergoing great bodily bardships. Thereafter when he was purified of his sins, the lord of the Yakshas, at the command of the Lord, appeared before him in a dream and bade him thusTo-day in the morning thou shalt get yourself shaved and stand concealed, stick in hand, at the door of thy house. Then whatever mendicant thou shalt see coming into thy courtyard, him thou shalt strike mercilessly with thy stick. Then the very moment the mendicant will turn into a pot full of gold coins. With that (wealth ) thou canst live happily during the rest of thy life. Then thee instructions being carried out the result followed (as directed). Now the barber who was called for
shaving saw this and said to himself.
Ah, this is the way to obtain a treasure. Why should I not then try the same! Thenceforward the barber, lying concealed
